Add blog post on our backlog pruning sessions (#208)
publiccodenet/blog: _posts/2021-06-14-pruning-our-backlog.md

---
title: "Pruning our backlog - one issue at the time"
date: 2021-06-14
author: Jan Ainali
type: blogpost
excerpt: We have a new open process for tackling long standing issues
categories:
  - news
---

> # Pruning our backlog - one issue at the time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Pruning the Standard for Public Code backlog - one issue at the time
```

> Two months ago in one of our regular community calls for the [Standard for Public Code](https://standard.publiccode.net), our lead codebase steward for quality, [Eric Herman](https://publiccode.net/who-we-are/team/eric-herman.html), took the lead in tackling some of our oldest issues in the backlog.

Reviewer: What did Eric actually do? Our 'lead steward taking the lead' is weirdly repetitive.

Author: I'll rephrase it!

> Two months ago in one of our regular community calls for the [Standard for Public Code](https://standard.publiccode.net), our lead codebase steward for quality, [Eric Herman](https://publiccode.net/who-we-are/team/eric-herman.html), initiated a review of some of our oldest issues in the backlog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two months ago during one of our regular community calls for the [Standard for Public Code](https://standard.publiccode.net), our lead codebase steward for quality, [Eric Herman](https://publiccode.net/who-we-are/team/eric-herman.html), initiated a review of some of our oldest issues in the backlog.
```

Even though it's a quite hard task, doing issue and git archeology, we felt that it was absolutely worth taking the time for it.

> During just an one hour long session we managed to close two issues as outdated/obsolote, mark two as a [good first issue](https://github.com/publiccodenet/standard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), identify two topics for future community calls and give a deadline for another two to close if no reponse was given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During just an one hour long session we managed to close two issues as outdated or obsolote, mark two as a [good first issue](https://github.com/publiccodenet/standard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), identify two topics for future community calls and give a deadline for another two to close if no reponse was given.
```

> During just an one hour long session we managed to close two issues as outdated or obsolote, mark two as a [good first issue](https://github.com/publiccodenet/standard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), identify two topics for future community calls and give a deadline for another two to close if no reponse was given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During just an one hour long session we managed to close two issues as outdated or obsolete, mark two as a [good first issue](https://github.com/publiccodenet/standard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22), identify two topics for future community calls and give a deadline for another two to close if no reponse was given.
```

> That is why decided to [do it again last month](https://blog.publiccode.net/community%20call/2021/05/20/pruning-the-oldest-issues.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is why we decided to [do it again last month](https://blog.publiccode.net/community%20call/2021/05/20/pruning-the-oldest-issues.html).
```

We made similar progress and felt that we were on to something.
Besides actually doing the work, we also felt that reviewing them openly, with the possibility for anyone interested to join was a good step for us to do even more work in the open.

> Based on that we continue our journey to include our community as much as possible in our work and recently [added this process to our documentation](https://github.com/publiccodenet/about/pull/932).

Reviewer: stronger causality!

```suggestion
Based on this, we'll continue our journey to include our community as much as possible in our work, so we recently [added this process to our documentation](https://github.com/publiccodenet/about/pull/932).
```
